
Today I want to talk about every day time between 5-6 till you sleep.
Specifically, how different people decide to spend this time and how this has
very interesting long-term effects on people's lives. In this context, I think
another important topic is boredom - that is, if you are constantly bored, you
probably should resiously question what you are currently doing. Beyong that,
let's say that you are not particularly bored at your job but you do not have
any clear ideas as to what to do with your free time after work every day and
on weekends. How should you approach this situation? I am in this situation,
but I don't know what to tell you. Actually, I know what to tell you - use
every chance to learn about what you like or WHAT YOU DON'T LIKE. The former is
a cliche so I am not going to discuss it here. What is more interesting to me
is the latter - finding out about things that you do not like to do. It isn't
talked that much in the wider media but I think it is pretty important
especially given it might take unknown amount of time (months, years, decades)
untill you find you like to do. If you waste this time but not paying attention
to other things than you like to do, it isn't going to end well. So, every
second, minute, hour, day, week, month, year, and decade should be viewed
through the lens of learning no matter what: in this case, you will either
learn that you like the stuff that you like or you dont; both of these should
be paid equal weight during the process. Given this backdrop, I think it is
easier to talk about modern boredom problem - if you pay sufficient attention
to your time (..,hours,days,...), I don't think you will be that bored. It just
goes away by defition. That said, your unconsciousness is a part of the puzzle
here because you might talk yourself into situations where in that given day,
for example, you have a chance to not be bored but because your negative
thoughts take over, you might find yourself unsatisfied at the end the day.
What to do in this case? Well, I don't particularly know but what I am sure of
is being aware is definitely helpful. Ok, let's say we settled the notion that
we won't be bored in our free time during the week. How should we spend that
time given we might not find out what we like for years? Well, this is also an
interesting puzzle. This will be a cliche but follow your curiosity. That said,
I think we have to strike a balance here because doing totally unrelated things
all the time isn't that much helpful. what might be a better option is to
imagine ourselves in current + 10 year, and think about skills that might be
the most helpful in that setting. For example, in 10 years, I am going to be 34
years old and if you ask me what skill I will need at that time, I would say
that it is a pretty safe bet that I will need communication skills. So if I
don't have anything to do right now and I don't have any curiosity at the
moment, spending time to improve my communication skills is the highest ROI
investment and everything else I could do right now should be evaluated against
'this investment' (opportunity cost). This topic is important to me because
over the last couple of weeks, I have witnessed that once people find a decent
job, settle down with a family, and stuff, they generally stop improving their 
existing skills or stop acquiring new skills, which is kind of tragic in some
sense and it resembles 'boing frog syndrome' - creeping mediocrity is left
unnoticed untill it is too late. By the way, another very high ROI investment
you can make is to spend time with your family because once time passes, 
in this case it isn't so much about what you might have gained but about what
you missed (time with parents, spouse, siblings, children) and the damage that 
comes from those regrets. So if I summarize, don't be bored; recognize that you
have a lot of free time and spend it wisely; don't forget precious things under
your nose; look both ways and learn both ways; don't be that boiled frog.

