
Sometimes I hear people working at 'odd' jobs to make additional money.
QAs making food deliveries after 5-6 pm is a good example of this. Hearing
those always made me uncomfortable because most of the time, it feels like I am
doing useless things (reading about the economy, markets; building my projects;
writing). But that view is somewhat not true because of a number of factors.
First, I am trying to optimize for the long-term - that is, I am busying myself
with things that scale very well over time and give me the most benefit over
the long-term. Viewed through these lens, food delivery is a suboptimal
activity because it does have scale and compouning advantages - a new fellow
driver can do what 10 year experienced driver can without any difficulty. The
same cannot be said about person who, for example, read about the economy or 
engaged in reflective writing for ten years. This view might be intellectually
sufficient for one's mind to easy but that was not the case for me. So to easy
my psychological burden of 'you-are-not-making-money-you-could-make-right-now',
I became very good at spending no money and saving every penny I got from any
source (one time programming projects, school reimbursements, etc).

One of the interesting observations one can make is we inherently mimicking
creatures. In this sense, one less obvious thing that we learn from others is
how to want. This can be tied back to our now only psychological but
historically physical desire to belong to some group. Most things can be said
to be not hard-coded into our DNAs (except the basics, like food, water,
shelter, sex) while that desire to belong can be viewed as hard-coded into our
core being. The reason why we are discussing this desire is that everything
else you 'desire' stems from it. That expensive Seiko watch that you constantly
think about is learned. An interesting angle is the link between this desire to
be like someone and self-deception occuring under the hood to make this process
as psychologically easy as possible. Just think about it, once you bought that
expensive watch, not only you have make sure that you use it (which might be
unconfortable enough by itself) but you have to convince yourself that you
wearing that watch is actually good/beneficial.
In this context, it might be applicable to discuss why your successful peers
cause the most pain and this pain level decreases as the other successful
person goes farther away from your peer zone (peer isn't restricted in this
case to age, but can be peers in terms of their skill level, education, etc).  
Successful age peers are the most painful in my observation because inherently
we know that the time is most precious thing that we have and seeing somebody
more successful than us with the same age means that we wasted our time, we
didn't use reach our potential, as least the potential level of the most
successful person in your age and background group (I am mostly ok with genious
jewish kids ruling finance and computer science but I am not ok if someone with
similar age of mine and similar background of mine achieves more than I, that
feels painful because that person is living proof that I didn't achieve my
potential. 


