


Humans are so blinded that it is unbelievable how little we see (literally).
Gorilla experiment shows that we take as input as little information as
possible that lets carry out our next movement. One interesting idea from this
is that this can also be true in moral sense - that is, we take in as little
meaning from our surrounding (physical, psychological, cultural,
socieconomical) as possible to make our next unit of life (e.g., next day) 
livable. Another idea that emerges from this is that we often operate at the
lowest level of analysis when we go about of lives in our day-to-day life. It
is when something is not working as it should we break out of this natural
default setting. This becomes a really interesting issue when something goes
wrong (a bank goes under) and we choose the wrong level of analysis (e.g.,
entire financial system is broken or capitalism is crooked), which might be
true but it also might not true; in fact, it might deadly wrong. This is useful
thing to know because we have limited resources (time/energy/etc) and it makes
to use the simplest tool that lets get the job done and preserve our resources.
Viewed through these lens, general advice in relationship argument is that you
want to argue about the smallest thing you could argue about that might fix the
problem.

Another idea is truth is a tool that can be approached from different angles.
Scientific truth is one form; moral truth is another form. The problem with not
separating these kinds of forms is that one kind does not replace the other at
all. For example, science tells us nothing about how we should live our lives,
but if you ignore moral (or religious) truth because you are SURROUNDED BY
SCIENTIFIC TRUTHS (mere the fact that everything is working correctly around us
often confuses us that the science might be the ultimate truth but that is at
least questinable), then at some point you hit a wall and the ladder in that
case isn't the form of truth that led you to that wall. 

Stories are very intesting in a sense that they appeal to almost everyone.
There aren't that many things that appeal to masses of people. Music maybe
comes close but the power of stories is impossible to underestimate. 

One interesting way to think about emotions and different states that we find
ourselves in in a given moment is to see them as different sub-personalities that
have their own unique traits responsible for certain actions that are in turn
needed to accomplish the task of that sub-personality in a given unit of time
it exists. When you are sexually on, correctly or incorrectly, you become a new
you with certain traits of initial you magnified, which will only turn off once
sexual you accomplishes the goal. An interesting thing about this is that your
emotions are controlled by a brain part called hipothalamus, which has
initiatory projections going into all parts of your brain and inhibitory
projections coming down into it from all parts of the brain. This is useful
because once hypothalamus sufficiently actives, it is impossible to stop its
initiatory projections, and it only turns off once inhibitory projects bring
signal from all parts of the brain. 

I should read about big five personality traits.


An idea just crossed my mind - I am uncomfortable with people who do not know
or are willing to sacrifice for the common good. This is not just in
resource-sense but ideaological or moral sense. If there is a common belief
among people and the group isn't acting like madness, people who sacrifice some
of their belief system for the common good (at least not constantly argue about
their position) is a good thing. Obviously, this might require much more
nuanced level of analysis (like how do you know that the outlier individual is
not doing good and how do you know that the group belief is a good for the
group), but nevertheless, I think once some idea is established and most of the
logical people in the group agree that the established belief is correct, it
might be wrong to go against the tide. (everything here is meant in its
broadest sense).  
