
Today is an interesting day. For the context, I wanched 'The Social Network' movie
and probably is hyped about programming related stuff. I am also reading
'Finite Games and Infinite Games' by James Carse book, which is an interting 
experience in itself. I have been thinking/struggling about what to do with my
life for weeks now and I think external things are having a strong influece of
my thinking. This is because first I was doing leetcode questions in order to
get into a big tech and earn high salary, before which I spent some time doing
some experimenting with Instagram - that was not a good experience and at the
end I said to myself, 'what the hell are you doing right now? you are spending
your precious time inside Instagram checking someone's false live for 10-20
times a day; not only it is affecting you emotionally but also productively
because after some 'exciting' image or video, you are having a hard time to
focus on the task at hand. So just drop this shit and focus on getting a good
job where you can earn a high salary, save some money and have a family' - a 
big tech in my case. It was going good until I attempted a coding challenge
after applying to Snowflake swe fall internship. That was a brutal 90 mins and
it basically killed my spirit. I mean I think I did pretty decent but 
something about that challenge just threw me off and hard. After that
experience, I started watching George Hotz on youtube, and he is one 'toxic'
motherfucker. I mean his ideas are all true but they are brutal and more
importantly very heavy for people who are not Hotz. His opinion that Java is
basically garbage and most of the jobs like front-end/back-end/full-stack jobs
are shit because there is nothing original in them; you just could move one
rock back and forth instead of doing those jobs. I cannot disagree. But ok,
what is next for me if I accept those? I have to accept one of those jobs, at
least until I have my own thing, some kind of asset that generated income while
I sleep. So thinking forward, I think the best option for me right now is to
prepare and get a job at big tech, save money and invest it so that by the age
of 30, you have something real to work with and some freedom. Everytime I think
along these lines, I think about risks that I should be taking while I am young
in my 20s but then you cannot take risks if your skills is not on par with
others who are taking the same risks. I mean you can but that would basically
be just stupid cause you are going to lose.  
