
Today was also an interesting day because it was my first taske of what the
real - or more clearly, professional - world looks like. I must say it is ok,
at least for now. It is also possible that my perception of it is a bit biased
because today I couldn't figure out a seemingly trivial thing at work - running
the git repo on an IDE on Mac. It sounds silly but I tried and I am no joke
when it comes to computers and stuff. Right at this moment I feel empty, I
don't know why - maybe it is bc it feels like I didn't do much today and didn't
achieve much. But as each day passes, I am starting to realize that a person
should not only focus on winning but on accepting the failure sometimes because
it is impossible to be a winner all the time and when you do lose, you should
do so graciously because tomorrow is a new day and new opportunity and you have
to stay alive. I also thought about recording the challenges that I encounter
during my internship and write sometime at the end so that next interns will
have something to make their life a bit easier; it is an interesting idea. It
is also interesting to observe that I sometimes feel uneasy when an air
conditioner is on in my room - it is as if, someone will walk in and tell me
that I should stop this nonsense and start paying for some of this stuff. 


Just another thing that I thought about the other day while reading 'Finite and
Infite Games' is root-cause analysis and breaking things down by abstracting
thing and understanding piece by piece. I mean obviously this sounds super
obvious thing - but for some reason it made so much sense to me at that moment.
Like if you are trying to analyze your addiction to something (in my case, it
would probably be porn) you want to think about it piece by piece. Porn


I think I found why I was feeling bad today - I couldn't do my job because it
is depended on other people. I was given Intellij Community as an IDE at work.
The problem with that is it is free version which means it does not have
support for some important stuff needed at work. In my case, the free version
didn't have support for Spring Boot framework and because of that I struggled
whole day trying to get an application to run on my IDE. I do not like this
feeling and I do not want to feel this again. It not only takes me emotionally
down but leads me productively ashtray. I think that is why people like Warren
Buffett treasure their independence so much, because in a way it is a
superpower. People who depend on others will always advance at the lowest
common denominator pace.




