
Today is a unique day because it is the first day I am writing under influence
of strange feeling I have been feeling for a long time - I have 'free time',
which you might think is a great thing because I get to do something that
benefits me in the long term; yes, that is true except I have spent maybe a
couple of hours on reading a book already and now as read more, I get this
strange pain-like feeling in my stomach, which I always interpreted as a sign
that I should take a break. But as I take a break, I always feel that I am not
doing my best and not at 100% in terms of my effort. Maybe true, but that is
also dangerous path because you might talk yourself into situations from which
it is very hard to recover. Another thing I should point out is for a couple of
days now, whenever I find time, I am checking instagram of sarah_jp__ like a
mad, which is kind of intersting psychologically because on the one hand, I am
getting my dose of dopamine at that time but also feeling not good afterwards
because it seems that compared to the life portrayed there, my current
day-to-day life is terribly boring. I know this is a commonly talked issue in
the modern times but still it affects me, which just shows the power of
underlying psychological forces that we do not directly control. Today is also
unique day because I bought a keyboard for over $200 (HHKB Pro 2), which seems
absurd but I somehow convinced myself that it is worth it. This decision is
probably loaded with emotions; maybe is my attempt to try to find 'that
thing' that makes everything click once I get it (e.g., 'once I have x million,
I will retire and lie at the beach all day long' type of thinking). I also
should mention that it's been a while since I had a real interaction with
someone at my age - covid has taught me a lot and one of them is that I don't
need that many material things but I must have some close people to interact
daily, otherwise you start to question smallest details which in a short while
lead you to question your life itself. Another thing that I think contributed
to my current state is some issues in my internship - that is, I mixed up my
commits in git and it's been making me anxious for a couple of day because it
wasn't trivial to fix.  

One of the interesting thing Jordan Peterson talks about is an alignment
between your words and actions and this is a part of development of wisdom as
one ages. If you don't have this alignment, not only will you lead somewhat
skechy life but also drive other people, especially your children, 'crazy'
because neigher of you know exactly what you are talking about when you try to
be 'wiser' and educate the other. 

Another intersting observation is that we as humans are attracted to uknown
while at the same time want some order in your lives. Unknown territory is
inherintly dangerous but it possesses something we do not know yet and
experiencing negatives of that unknown is often worth the prize that we
potentially might get in return (some insight that will very useful in your
life. 
