
There are at least two kinds of games. One could be called finite, the other infinite.
A finite game is played for the purpose of winning, an
infinite game for the purpose of continuing the play.

Finite games: clear rules/boundaries (if one cannot follow these rules, he is lost in the
lost [the lost = playing finite game might already be seen as loss, but when one cannot
even play this losing game, that person is double loser.]), free choice (the
players always have freedom to choose the game they want to play [now, imagine
someone who does not recognize that he is playing a game that he does not want
play - what a horrible tradegy]; notable is the fact that the limitations of
these games are self-limitations since we ourselves agree to play these games), 
opponent-seeking (there games cannot be
played alone; otherwise, they lose their meaning by definition),
externally-defined (these games have 'the date, time, score, etc', which makes
them by definition externally-dependent; this leads to an interesting
observation - everyone involved in these games is also externally-dependent),
clear one winner (others might be ranked), cannot include infinite game, 

Finite game => self-limitation => intentional forgetfulness (players must
forget that they have the freedom to step outside of the finite game field,
otherwise competitive effort will desert them). The issue here is whether we
are ever willing to drop the veil and openly acknowledge, if only to ourselves,
that we have freely chosen to face the world through a mask. What makes this an
issue isn't some morality of masking ourselves but rather that self-veiling is a
contradictory act - a free suspension of our freedom (I cannot forget that I
have forgotten). How far are we willing to go in our seriousness at
self-veiling, and how far will we go to have others act in complicity with us?
Following this logic, the players in the infinite game approach each finite game with
in their infinite game with appropriate self-veiling and take it not seriously but 
playfully. They let themselves and others understand that they are masked. 

Regarding seriousness, it is the primary killer of possibilities since to be
serious is to press for a specified conclusion with the smallest cost to
oneself. To be playful, in contrast, is to allow for possibility whatever
the cost to oneself. Surprise causes finite play to end; it is the reason for
infinite play to continue. To be prepared against suprise is to be 'trained';
to be prepared for surprise is to be 'educated'. 

The agreement of the players to the applicable rules constitutes the ultimate
validation of those rules. In other words, there are no rules that require us
to obey rules. If there were, there would have to be a rule for those rules,
and so on (this might be another weak point)

One similarity between these two is freedom to play.

Finite players play within boundaries; infinite players play with boundaries.

Infite games: no rules/boundaries (no start, no middle, no finish), no care for
the reason (this might be one weak point; (<=X) this might be because it might be 
impossible to figure out 'WHYs' unless you experience and reflect on it),
internally-defined (e.g., the time is not world time but one created by the play
itself [this is new time horizon for the people involved]), unclear to evaluate
externally, can include finite games, "changing rules" (when finite outcome
creeps into the play, rules change; otherwise, it turns into a finite game.
Said differently, players in the infinite games agree to continue playing
instead of announcing someone as a winner as the play progresses),
indescribably by definition [compare to: have a bigger goal than yourself] 
(otherwise, it is a finite),  
