
There is only one metagame while small games are many. 

People have different IQs (skills and abilities) and it is OK because
fundamental problems that we face are not money related (althought there are
issues to be solved in this regard for sure); they are democratic and everyone
has access to these things (some understandings). For example, I am a software
developer but not the best one and probably not the one who is gonna make a
fortune by inventing the next Facebook. But that is OK with me because if we
decide this meritocractically and the best person is actually gets the job, I
think we all, invidually and collectively, benefit from that. Another thing to
mention here is that there has to be a balance between what you want to achieve
and whether it is too much (wishful thinking); you have to have a practical
look at yourself and the world and decide what is achievable and what is not.
Understanding this earlier in life I think is immensely helpful because it lets
avoid so many things that are essentially waste of your resources (most
importnatly your time). That said, you should also keep in mind that
self-limitation is the biggest barrier people have ahead of their potential.
The art is to find a balance. 

Never forget that every child at birth is essentially unlimited source of
potential. Having a kid is an unbelievable opportunity to have a relationship
with potential of the world. You have never experienced something like that
before and will potentially experience a handful of times.  

Often times, the most difficult things are internal - meaning facing touch
things about you or that are in you and dealing them is the most beneficial
things one can do to become wealthy, and I dont mean here material wealth but
wisely wealth. 

Your consciousness is different than you. At the beginning it is more
intelligent than you because probably it is often by society, which has
generally speaking more wisdom than individual, so you should listen to your
consciousness at first. Then it should be something like dialogue where your
and your consciouness grow as a result of interaction between you and your
consciousness (let's call that mix 'a being) and a being's interaction with the
reality.

I also realize today that taking ideas from others who read many books seems
reasonable. Before I used to struggle when I thought about the fact that I
might be reading less than 'the best' and that I am having a difficulty with
coming up with original ideas. Looking at it, I think it is in some sense
irrational since there are people who are obsessed with reading and they would
be far more able to read/notice connections/come up with new connections. In
that sense, it should be ok to rely on them and there should be no shame in
that. In this context, obviously, I am assuming that you would take everything
you take from others with a grain of salt and judge their words with their
some kind of track record (long one or hard-life one or etc) that those people have. 
Also, you should also keep in mind that there might be self-limitation or
laziness in your unconscious motivation behind not wanting to do something (in
this case, read books).
